# Overview

[L01_SE_Overview.pdf](Overview%20602983f3bfa8484981891f34f649fa3d/L01_SE_Overview.pdf)

[L02_Requirements.pdf](Overview%20602983f3bfa8484981891f34f649fa3d/L02_Requirements.pdf)

## Student Learning Goals:

Students will be able to:

- Understand and apply important software engineering concepts, principles, methods, and
techniques;
- **Understand and apply modern software development processes and methodologies covering requirements modeling, software design, software architecture, implementation, testing, and deployment, plus continuous integration, continuous deployment (CI/CD) practices, and the use of toolchains;**
- Work with team members to complete a software development project;
- Understand other important software engineering methods and activities such as configuration management, project management, quality control and assurance, and software process improvement.

AWS will be used in this class to develop and create 

# Lecture (Computer Software):

## Categories of Software:

System Software

- System software
• Operating systems
• Database management systems
• Other server systems
- Embedded software
• Software embedded in hardware components for control
- Application software
• Product-line software
• Business/Engineering/scientific software
- Internet applications
• Web sites, smartphone applications
• Unique characteristics of Internet applications
• Network intensiveness
• Concurrency and Unpredictable load
• Performance (fast response to many users) and availability (24/7 uptime)
• Data driven and content sen
• Continuous evolution

## Modern Computing Trends

- Internet computing
    
    right now, the world is talking about web 3.0 
    
    web 1: (past) creating web related applications
    
    1 directional communication 
    
    you retrieve information, you don’t really submit information
    
    web 2: (present)  - post facebook/twitter - 
    
    now we go to the internet both to obtain information and to push information
    
    the companies make money from our data
    
    web 3: (future?) 
    
    microservers
    
    based off of a collection of apis
    
- Ubiquitous computing
- Cloud computing – Service oriented computing
    - Software as a service
        - the traditional
    - Data as a service
        - facebook’s buisness model
        - in danger due to changes like Apple’s privacy updates
    - Platform as a service
        - GCP/AWS
    
    Serverless Computing:
    
     it’s on its way, but until we’ve developed a decentralizaed computing solution it will be controlled by server systems. 
    
- Social computing
    - blockchain
    - 
- Open-world computing
    - Open-source projects
    - Open platform

idea: undermine patent offices by putting ownership of code, api, inventions, software, etc on a block-chain service? 

- block-chain

# Software Quality and Challenges

## Common Industry Concerns about Software

Why does it take so long to get software finished?
Why are development costs so high?
Why can’t we find all errors before we give the software
to our customers?
Why do we spend so much time and effort maintaining
existing programs?
Why can’t we easily measure the progress as software is
being developed and maintained?

## Software Myths

### Management myths

Don’t we already have books with full of standards and procedures for
building software?

If we get behind schedule, we can add more programmers to catch up.

- adding people to the team doesn’t usually speed up development
- 

If we outsource the software project to a third party, we can just relax
and let them build it.

- this used to be the case
- software has become too complicated.
- we have to be involved in every part of the process in order to ensure successful software development

### Customer myths

A general statement of objectives is sufficient to begin writing
programs. We can fill in the details later.

Project requirements continually change, but change can be easily
accommodated because software is flexible.

### Practitioners’ myths

• Once we write the program and get it to work, out job is done.
• Until I get the program running, I have no way of assessing its quality.
• The only deliverable work product for a successful project is the
working program.
• Software engineering will make us create voluminous and unnecessary
documentation and will invariably slow us down.

## Software Evolution and Its Impacts

### Legacy software - There are already Hundreds of existing software

### Common reasons for evolution in software industry

- Must be enhanced to implement new business requirements
- Must be adapted to meet the needs of new systems, computing,
network environment, and technologies, requiring re-design and –
architecture

### Software crisis

due to large and complex software systems with increasingdemand, changing technologies, and market, causing:

- Project running over-budget and/or over-time (missing the deadline)
- Issue of software quality (questions about what is delivered)
- Un-manageable and un-maintainable

## Challenges of Software Quality

### The key characteristics of quality software

**Meeting the requirements** (functional and non-functional)

functional 

- 

non-functional

- 

**Easy to maintain** (easy to understand, modify, and extend)

MOST IMPORTANT - especially when it comes to software architectures

**(code must be Easy to understand/modify and extend )**

Now that we have a powerful infrastructure

**Reusable** (easy to integrate, related to extension and maintenance)

### Challenging factors for software quality

The law of continuing change

ny software system that represents some real-world reality undergoes continuous change or become progressively less useful in that environment.

The law of continuing growth

the functional content of an E-type system must be continually increased to maintain user satisfaction over its lifetime.

The law of increasing complexity

As time flows forwards, entropy increases. That is, as a program evolves, its structure will become more complex. Just as in physics, this effect can, through great cost, be negated in the short term. The law of large program evolution.

The law of declining quality

the quality of an E-type system will appear to be declining unless it is rigorously maintained and adapted to operational environment changes.

 - E-type system: 

# SO: How can we improve the software quality?

## Experience from Manufacturing Industry

- Manufacturing industry experienced the same problems
• Improved product quality using good process for quality control
(e.g., six sigma)
• Characteristic differences in Software
• Software is developed, not manufactured.
• Most software continues to be custom built.
• Customer requirements are changing even after deployment.
• Some people argue that “Software” is different!
• But software is now almost everywhere!

## Software Quality Improvement Initiatives

### Advancements

- Improved software processes
- Advanced software engineering methodologies
- Use of tools for automation

### Process improvement initiatives

- CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) by SEI (Software
Engineering Institute) operated by Carnegie Mellon University
sponsored by Depart of Defense (DoD)
- ISO, IEEE standards
- Enterprise Architecture framework (EAF)

The DOD created a set of standards, and demanded that organization follow them. 

This has had a hugh impact on software quality 

# Software Engineering

## Definitions of Software Engineering

### Software engineering

iis the establishment and use of sound
engineering principles in order to obtain economically software that
is reliable and works efficiently on real machines.” (Fritz Bauer 1969)
• “sound engineering principles” – development method
• “economically” – cost
• “reliable”, “efficiently” – quality

SYSTEMATIC

Cost Effective
Quality

### “Software engineering:

- (1) The application of a systematic,
disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation,
and maintenance of software; that is, the application of engineering
to software
- (2) The study of approaches as in (1).” (IEEE 1993)
• “systematic, disciplined, quantifiable” – development method
• “development, operation, and maintenance” – development process
• “application of engineering” – quality and cost

Systematic

development process

Quantifyable

must be able to provide EVIDENCE

## The Goal of Software Engineering

## The Ultimate goal

To deliver quality software (customer value) timely (within the deadline)
and economically (within the budget) delivered to customers

### The characteristics of quality software

Meeting the requirements (functional, non-functional)

Easy to maintain (easy to understand, modify, and extend)

Reusable (easy to integrate and maintain)

### How to achieve the goal

Process – 

A “framework” of software development

( we will be focusing on the Agile process )

Methods – 

Engineering techniques “how” to build software

Tools – 

Automated “support” for the process and the methods to
improve the quality and productivity

# Process

### Definitions of process

A system of operations in producing something; a series of
actions, changes, or functions that achieve an end or a result
(Webster) 

A sequence of steps performed for a given purpose (IEEE)

A process defines who is doing what, when, and how to reach a
certain goal (Pressman)

Definition of software process

A set of activities, methods, practices, and transformations used
to develop and maintain software and the associated products
(e.g., project plans, design documents, code, test cases, user manuals, etc.) (SEI)

## Core Software Engineering Activities

### Feasibility analysis of the problem

- is this possible?
- time scale
    - most tasks are very easy (they simply take time)
- complexity
- computational requirements (hardware)
- cost

1) write down the requirements

### Planning and initiation

- 

### Requirement collection, analysis, and specification

### Design and architecture

- figure out the algorithms
- figure out how to create different modules that can communicate effectively
- what is the scale?

### Implementation

- here’s when we start writing the code

### Testing

- always test a module right when you finish it
- this is called TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT
    - TEST DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT
- create a test case even before you write the program
- if you do it for every module as you write them, you have a program with all of the test cases.
- Without developing test cases whie you develop, there’s no way of knowing if the cod eWILL break.
- once you have to add or change new modules, you can run the test cases, and it will show you which module you broke, and you can fix the issues easily

### Deployment

- make it public
- 

### Operation and maintenance

- always keep running test cases and analytics

### —-The cycle repeats—-

# Methods

- Evolution of software development
    - Machine codes and assembly codes
        - Difficult to write even for a small function
- Programs written in high-level language
    - For easier to write, understand, and maintain, compared to assembly codes
    - Modularization using functions and procedures
- Structured programming
    - A systematic way of modulization
- Object-oriented programming
    - Improved modularization, maintenance, integrate, reuse
- Component-based software development
    - Advanced modularization, maintenance, integrate, reus
- Service-oriented software
    - Even more advanced modularization, maintenance, integrate, reuse
- Cloud computing
    - Reuse (share) of services, platform, and infrastructure

Most modern software systems are large scale.

# TOOLS

- IDE
    - Visual Studio Code, PyCharm, etc.
- Application frameworks
    - React, Express, Django, Flask, [ASP.NET](http://asp.net/), Spring, etc.
- Version control system
    - Git, GitHub
- Software process and management tools
    - Jira
- Third-party libraries
- Open-source projects
- Cloud infrastructures
- Deployment tools

# Software Engineering Body of Knowledge

Core knowledge areas:

---

**Software Requirements**

**Software Design**

**Software Construction**

**Software Testing**

---

Software Maintenance

Software Engineering Process

Software Quality

Software Configuration Management

Software Engineering Management

Software Engineering Tools and Methods

## 

Areas of Software Engineering and
Courses Offered by Our Department

Key Topics to Discuss in this class
• Software process
• Concepts of iterative process
• Agile process (Scrum, Kanban)
• Use of toolchains
• Requirements(analysis, modeling, and writing requirements)
• Domain modeling (requirements analysis and modeling)
• Use case and user story (writing requirements)
• Software design and architecture (for quality and maintenance)
• Design principles
• Design patterns
• Implementation
• Object-Oriented programming
• Programming design principles and patterns
• Refactoring and continuous integration
• Testing
• Test-Driven Development (TDD)
• Deployment
• Continuous release and deployment
• Other software engineering topics
• Configuration management, project management, quality control, and process
improvement
References
• Roger S. Pressman, Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, 7th
edition, McGraw-Hill High Education, 2010.
• M. Page-Jones, Fundamentals of Object-Oriented Design in UML, AddisonWesley, 2000.
• Booch, G., Rumbaugh, J., and Jacobson, I., The Unified Modeling Language
User Guide, Addison-Wesley, 1999.
• E. Gamma, R. Helm, R. Johnson, and J. Vlissides, Design Patterns: Elements
of Reusable Object-Oriented Software, Addison-Wesley, Boston, MA, 1995.
• Partha Kuchana, Software Architecture Design Patterns in Java, Auerbach
Publications, 2004.
• C. Larman, Agile and Iterative Development: A Manager's Guide, (The Agile
Software Development Series), Addison-Wesley, 2003.
• J. Highsmith, Agile Project Management, 2nd edition, Addison-Wesley, 2010.